<!-- page 1 -->

All contact and via relationships can be described by one of these three definitions. When necessary, shapes can be identified by referring to those that are not part of a distinct group. For example, referring to vias that are not fully aligned is a reference to all vias that are partially aligned and not aligned.

Fully Aligned
Partially Aligned
Not Aligned

**Figure 77: Design Rule Syntax Contact and Via Alignment Definitions**

# 4.2.9 Centerline Definition
DRC uses the following algorithm to generate the centerline.
1. Create mb areas, mb edges, and mb line ends for all discrete width polygons.
2. Create mb extensions:
   a. When an mb line end touches multiple areas of larger widths, size the mb line end outside by (0.5 × w + 1 grid), where w is the smallest of the larger widths.
   b. mb edges are reclassified after the extensions are added so that the coinciding edges from the added mb extension will take precedence over the original mb edges.
3. Size edges inside and create corner fill regions to generate blockage for non-centerline regions.
   a. Enclosure_end edges are not sized.
   b. Size mb edges inside by (0.5 × w - 1 grid). Size only the edges that coincide with the original polygon edge. w is the width of the mb area touching the edge, including the mb extensions. Where mb extensions overlap, use the smallest of the overlapping widths. Generate non-centerline blockage regions for areas having mb widths > largest valid discrete width value. Copy layer with widths > largest discrete widths.
   c. Generate corner fill regions for inside corners. For an inside corner connected to a vertical edge that moved by dx, and a horizontal edge that moved by dy, fill that corner by the dx, dy values. dx and dy values are generated from step 3b, above.
   d. Generate blockage for outside corners connected to two equal enclosure_end edges. Fill in the corner region starting from that outside corner's vertex with a square having edge lengths = (0.5 × w - 1 grid), where w is the length of enclosure_ends. This is for square type structures to allow the centerlines to be formed in a "+" (plus) configuration.

<!-- page 2 -->

4. Generate centerline shapes for mb extension areas. This is generated by sizing the (mb extension edges not equal to the mb width) inside by (0.5 × w - 1 grid), where w is the mb width of the extension. When computing these additional centerline regions, remove the portion of the centerline that intersects the corner fill region produced in step 3c.
5. Centerline_tmp1 = (Input layer – step 3)
6. Centerline_tmp2 = (step 4 touching Centerline_tmp1)
7. Centerline = Centerline_tmp1 + Centerline_tmp2

# 4.2.10 Level Orientation
C-orientation and P-orientation

The concept of C-orientation and P-orientation is a flexible way to specify x/y-orientation dependence of certain restricted design levels. C-orientation is the way critical gate PC is laid out. SEC assumes that gates are laid out in a vertical (from top to bottom) fashion. C-orientation is vertical. P-orientation is always perpendicular to C-orientation and, therefore, horizontal in this example. Customer who prefers to layout gates in a horizontal fashion must contact your SEC technical representative.

A DRC switch is provided to set C-orientation to vertical and P-orientation to horizontal or vice versa. However, customer who wants to use the DRC switch to set C-orientation to horizontal must contact your SEC technical representative. C-orientation refers to critical orientation and P-orientation refers to perpendicular (to critical) orientation.

P-width
P-oriented
P-space
C-width
C-oriented
C-space

RX
PC
PB
CA
M1_All

**Figure 78: C-orientation and P-orientation**

<!-- page 3 -->

**Table 23: Level Orientation Table**

| Level | 11M_3Mx_6Dx_1lz_LB | 12M_3Mx_5Dx | 12M_3Mx_6Dx_2lz_LB | 13M_3Mx_6Dx | 9M_3Mx_5Dx | 10M_3Mx_6Dx | 10M_3Mx_5Dx_1Gx_1lz |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| PC | C | C | C | C | C | C | C |
| CA¹ | C | C | C | C | C | C | C |
| CB | P | P | P | P | P | P | P |
| M1² | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A |
| M2 | P | P | P | P | P | P | P |
| M3 | C | C | C | C | C | C | C |
| D1 | P | P | P | P | P | P | P |
| D2 | C | C | C | C | C | C | C |
| D3 | P | P | P | P | P | P | P |
| D4 | C | C | C | C | C | C | C |
| D5 | P | P | P | P | P | P | P |
| D6 | C | - | C | C | N/A | C | - |

Note:
1. CA = CA, CA_E1, CA_E2, CA_E3, or CA_E4
2. M1 = M1, M1_E1, M1_E2, or M1_E3

# 4.3 Glossary of Design Rule Terminology
The terms and abbreviations defined below are commonly used in the physical design rule descriptions.

**Table 24: Design Rule Checking Abbreviations**

| Abbreviation | Definition |
| :--- | :--- |
| Anchor conflict | This error occurs when the design contains two anchors of either color that force and unresolvable coloring choice. Anchor self conflict occurs when a single shape is anchored by both mask0 and mask1. Different mask anchors on a single shape should be placed as far apart from each other to avoid this error. |
| Ant_EG_Gate | Gate_ANT over EG. |
| BB_min | Least enclosing rectangle of UBM without neighbor. |
| BEC_DP | Union (BEC, BECBERG, BECCUS, KERFBEC) |
| BR | Least enclosing rectangle of GUARDEDG with neighbor. |
| BR_KOZ | Least enclosing rectangle of BB_min with neighbor. |
| BRBD | BR_KOZ coinciding edge with BB_min. |

151